This bachelor thesis deals with goodness of fit tests for normal distribution and the automatic selection of the tuning parameter. Two certain classes of
tests for normality based on the moment generating function are presented, both depending on a tuning parameter, in order to improve the performance of these location-scale invariant test statistics, the automatic selecting of the tuning parameter when the set of the tuning parameter is finite will be studied.  These data-dependent methods will be applied on the proposed classes of tests for normal distribution. For the implementation, the statistical analysis and modeling are implemented in the statistical software package R.

Starting with some theoretical basics, the necessary mathematical foundations and notations of the normal distribution as well as the goodness-of-fit test are provided in section 2. With these at hand, in section 3 the Henze-Visagie test for normality in any dimension based on a partial differential equation involving the moment generating function and the Zghoul test for normality based on the empirical moment generating function are introduced. In section 4, a method for generating the critical values for these tests is discussed and its simulation is presented. These tests rely on a specific parameter, known as the "tuning parameter", which is certainly the key reason why its selection is vital to acquire an efficient performing test procedure. Section 5 is devoted to the problem of data-dependent choice of the tuning parameter of these certain test classes, which is also applied for the Henze-Visagie and Zghoul tests. In section 6 the finite-sample power behavior of all mentioned tests for univariate normality will be simulated and the result will be briefly discussed.
